Thank you for joining us today.
I’m Rudy Stebih and welcome to Episode 4
– Windows 8 Tablet Simulator here on Help
Desk TV.
By now you’ve had a chance to look over
our Windows 8 videos featured on the desktop.
But how would you like to experience Windows
8 on a Tablet.
I know, I hear you.
You were not one of the conference attendees
at Build that were treated to a Samsung tablet
to take with them to preview & develop Windows
8 apps on.
Not to worry though.
Windows 8 Development Preview comes bundled
with a Windows Tablet simulator.
And all you have to do to experience this
is to:
Start the file explorer.
And click on “C:\Program Files (x86)\Common
Files\Microsoft Shared\Windows Simulator\Microsoft.Windows.Simulator.exe”
program file.
After a few seconds, the virtual tablet will
pop up giving you your very own virtual tablet
experience inside of Windows 8.
First, before we go any further, make sure
you have clicked on the hand icon on the side
bar to start the touch simulation.
You will notice that now your mouse icon has
a ‘+’ symbol surround by a circle attached
to it.
This we will call your ‘Finger Target’.
Essentially, anywhere you place this finger
target, and click the mouse button, will simulate
a finger press.
Following along those lines, if you click
the left mouse button on the tablet screen,
and hold the mouse button down, then swoosh
your mouse pointer to the left and letting
go of the mouse button near the end of your
swoosh, the tiles will scroll to the left.
Doing this procedure in the reverse direction
will scroll the tiles to the right.
Now, to get at the ‘Charm’ menu, place
your finger target on the right side of the
tablet screen, and click-drag to the left.
Clicking anywhere on the screen will hide
the ‘Charm’ menu.
If you’d like to change the tablet screen
resolution, just click the little square box
on the side bar, and from the pop up menu,
select the screen resolution of your choice.
You can then drag one of the corners of the
tablet to resize the window as normal.
Just above the tablet resolution button, there
are 2 buttons to rotate the tablet to simulate
a portrait orientation.
Selecting one or the other button will rotate
the tablet either in the clockwise or counter
clockwise direction.
By clicking on the big windows logo on the
bottom of the tablet, you will simulate pressing
the Windows key on the ‘Charm’ menu.
Now comes my favorite feature.
Selecting the double arrow icon on the side
bar will activate the pinch/zoom feature.
And you will now notice that your mouse cursor
has 2 ‘Finger Targets’.
You simulate a pinch zoom by holding the left-mouse
button down while rotating your mouse scroll
wheel to either zoom in or zoom out.
After finishing zooming the page to your desire
magnification, left-clicking and dragging
the mouse around, will move the zoomed window
inside your tablet screen.
And now lastly, left clicking and dragging
from the left side of the screen will switch
between your active apps.
I hope you enjoyed todays Help Desk TV.
If you have a comment about this program,
a question, or a shortcut you would like to
share with me, send us an e-mail message to
feedback@helpdesktv.ca.
Thanks for watching!